Once you've got your JCL written chances
are you actually want to submit it and
make it run.
As you've probably picked up on by now
when there's something you want to do
there is usually eight ways to do it.
So I'm going to show you two ways
of submitting your JCL to Jazz.
To begin we're going to open up
option to of ispf, for edit.
That will bring us to this screen.
And you just specify the data set either
using the ispf library fields up there or
the one below it labeled other partitions,
sequential or VSAM Data Set or
z/OS UNIX file.
That will bring up this
listing of data set members.
Place an s next to the one you
want to select and hit enter.
TSO will come back and
pop up a little message saying, got it.
I have submitted your job.
Here's the job number I gave it.
Now I said,
there's more than one way to do things.
So I'm going to show you another
way of submitting JCL to Jazz.
If you're at TSO prompt you can
submit a job from here too.
Just type TSO submit followed by
the data set member spelled out as
the data set name and
then the specified member in parentheses.
The data set and data set member
should be within single quotes.
It sounds a lot more
complicated when I say it.
Just look at how it's spelled out here.
But when you put the TSO at
the beginning of a statement,
you're issuing a TSO command.
So if you have some JCL and
you don't even have to look at it,
you just know you want to run it,
that's how you do that.
To look at the output of that job head
into SDSF from the primary ispf menu.
Then go into option H because
we want to look at held jobs.
As you can see there's
a lot you can do in here.
All in due time all in due
time when we hit enter for
the held jobs we get a listing of output.
And we can do a number of things with it.
Right now we want to display that output.
So we'll place an s next to it and
hit enter.
That will bring up all of
the output from that job.
As I said, there's a lot you can
do in here with other commands.
But the most common commands
are probably S for display,
C for cancel, P for purge and X for print.
When you do view the output first thing
you'll notice is that it is tremendously
verbose.
And we're not going to get into that here.
Pretty much every piece of information
regarding the execution of that job is
in here.
And it would take a whole lot of
time to fully explore that output.
So we'll just stop right here and
be happy that we know how to build
JCL submit it and manage the output.
Stay tuned though,
later on I'm going to show you
another way to look at system output.